devastating hurricane sweep through the
world particularly in the Caribbean and
southern us more and more often in the
recent years the best place to hide
during a hurricane is a secure basement
a closet or a bathroom with no windows
it is also a good idea to get under a
solid piece of furniture to save
yourself from a collapsing roof a
must-have device to have with you in
this situation is a weather radio
running on batteries it will give you
evacuation orders or instructions on how
to survive in your shelter and update
you on the weather situation as you wait
for the all-clear signal
protect your house to be on the safe
side install shutters and panels on your
doors and windows and secure the roof if
a hurricane starts while you're driving
leave your vehicle and find a building
to shelter in or a ditch stopping in an
overpass will not save you if your home
is a trailer and there is enough time to
flee to a safe area do it do not stay in
the trailer hoping it will withstand the
storm tornado tornado swirl at the speed
of 300 miles per hour and ruin
everything in their way once you hear a
tornado warning and notice the skies
getting darker and darker and the
barometric pressure drop it's time to
get into a sturdy shelter again it's a
good idea to take a weather radio with
you an underground shelter or a room on
the lowest floor is the best place to
hide stay in the middle of the room as
debris mostly heads for the corners
protect your head with sofa cushions or
your arms if a tornado starts when
you're in a public building follow the
same rules you want to stay as low as
possible avoid windows and open spaces
such as auditoriums gyms and large
hallways desks and benches can give you
some extra protection if you get under
them it is impossible to outrun a
tornado it can easily lift up your car
and driving in weather conditions it
brings all be fast anyway
if you don't have enough time to drive
to the nearest shelter stop your car in
an open area with no trees or objects
that can crash down on
get out of the car and hide in a ditch
or lie flat on the ground protecting
your head with your arms be careful and
wait for the tornado to pass leave the
damaged building as soon as you are
informed it's safe outside tsunami
gigantic ocean waves caused by
earthquakes and underwater landslides
are called tsunamis and they are up to
no good
they obviously arise in coastal areas no
matter if you live in one of those or
stay there on vacation do not wait for
any instructions once you feel an
earthquake immediately escape to a
higher lying area tsunamis are so fast
they hit the coast minutes after the
earthquake
remember that tall buildings including
hotels right in the beach area can
provide an excellent shelter in case of
tsunami finds you at sea stay there
instead of going back to the coast it
won't be a safe haven if you live in an
area with a high tsunami risk it is a
good idea to discuss an evacuation plan
with your friends and family think of a
place where you can all escape in case
of disaster flood floods occur more
often than any other natural disasters
and change the landscape dramatically
remember New Orleans Houston and other
low-lying areas they're usually caused
by intense rainfalls which can be long
or even very short don't try to be the
bravest person around and stay in your
house once you hear the evacuation
warning leave for safer higher grounds
with your important papers in a
waterproof container if a flash flood
gives you no time to evacuate and the
water is all around you
don't try to swim across it a river with
debris in it is way stronger than you
worst-case scenario when there is no
other way but move in the water try
swimming on your back with your arms
behind to steer avalanche an avalanche
can hit when you are enjoying Alpine
Skiing in a dreamlike location it is
very fast and devastating burying
everything
in its way under tons of snow when an
avalanche starts try to move to the side
of the slope as fast as you can
there will be more snow in the center of
the flow to move faster drop any heavy
equipment you have on you if you can't
escape it try using a sturdy tree to
keep you above the snow don't let
yourself sink kick your feet and arms as
if you were swimming in the snow heading
uphill in case you get buried in the
snow dig an air pocket for you to be
able to keep breathing wait for the
rescue team to find you and don't waste
your energy shouting or aggressively
digging the snow unless you can hear
them close to you
wildfire wildfires both natural and
man-made spread at an amazing speed and
destroy everything in their way if you
find yourself in a wildfire area it is
critically important to ensure that you
can breathe if you fail to do it you can
pass out in the midst of a danger zone
use a wet cloth to cover your nose and
mouth and escape to safety upwind of the
fire and in a treeless and bush less
area is the safest place you can go the
best option is to find any building to
hide it remember to leave its doors
unlocked so that the firefighters can
save you if it comes to that if there
are no buildings but there is water next
to you get in it if you can get in a
vehicle and drive away from the wildfire
do it it will give you more chances to
save yourself than running away
obviously even when the smoke gets so
thick it is impossible to drive do not
leave the vehicle earthquake there are
some areas in the world which are more
prone to an earthquake than others
you most likely know if you live in one
of those areas John Anderson and you
Ichiro Miata of the University of Nevada
singled out the top American states
where earthquakes take place most often
they are Alaska California and Nevada
however earthquakes of higher or lower
severity can happen just about anywhere
you might not be heard by the earth
shaking itself but by the things that
fall on you make sure your TV set in
bookshelves are secured on the walls
heavy furniture also has to stand firmly
on the ground
picture frames and mirrors do not belong
right over your head if an earthquake
starts when you are inside stay where
you were experts say that during an
earthquake you must drop to the floor
get underneath the table cover your neck
and head with one hand and hold on with
the other your entire body must be under
a table don't try to run out of the
building the exterior of a building is
one of the most dangerous places if you
don't have any tables try to get as low
as possible protect your head and neck
with your hands if you are outside when
disaster starts stay in an open area
away from anything that can fall on you
dealing with a foreign object in the eye
first things first if there's something
in your eye like a piece of glass don't
do anything yourself if someone drive
you to the hospital if the object is
just an eyelash then don't forget to
wash your hands before you do anything
try to locate the eyelash by looking in
a mirror blink to make your tears wash
the eyelash out once the object is in
the corner of your eye take a wet piece
of cloth and use it to remove the
eyelash applying ointment to a wound
augments contain unwanted moisture which
is a great environment for bacteria to
reproduce more quickly
the best thing you can do is clean the
wound in cool water with soap and put a
dry bandage on it you will see that the
wound will heal more quickly rubbing a
person with a fever with alcohol or
vinegar vinegar and alcohol are absorbed
into the blood so it's kind of a way to
get drunk or to make a wacky salad
dressing seriously speaking alcohol
rubbing may create intoxication while
vinegar will significantly raise acidity
which is especially dangerous for
children so don't believe these outdated
pieces of advice drink a lot of water
tea and
non-alcoholic fluids cool the air in the
room to a temperature of 61 to 64
degrees Fahrenheit or from 16 to 18
degrees Celsius in these conditions the
patient will get over the fever by
themselves if they don't they should see
a doctor
lifting up an unconscious person if
someone faints you have to lift them up
and sprinkle some cold water on them
right well that's what most people think
like this video if you thought so
however lifting a fainted person up will
only aggravate the spasm what you should
do is lift their legs up unbutton any
tight pieces of clothing and don't let
them stand up right after they come
around after they regained consciousness
don't let them drink coffee or energy
drinks that many people love caffeine
will only lead to dehydration treating
burns with butter or sour cream many
people believe that this method is
effective only because it relieves pain
but why do butter and sour cream make
you feel better the thing is we keep
them in the fridge so when we put them
on a burn they're cold
the danger is though that butter and
sour cream dry your skin and disrupt
thermal exchange this results in heat
having nowhere to go but deeper into the
skin causing even more damage what you
should do is hold your hand in the cool
water for 15 minutes this will help with
the pain Gino white blisters appear on
the burnt spot in our bodies everything
happens for a reason
blisters protect the wound from
infection removing the protective layer
may lead to festering setting a bone on
your own are you a professional trauma
surgeon if not you should never set a
dislocated joint on your own no matter
how cool or brutal that looks in the
movies it may result in additional
injuries and the resulting litigation
the best course of action would be to
immobilize the injured limb and go to
the hospital as soon as possible
bandaged the limb in a comfortable
position in mobilizing not only the
place of possible fracture
but also the two closest joints as well
applying warmth to a spring when your
muscles are sprained a warm cloth won't
help
on the contrary heat will strengthen the
blood flow leading to a more severe
swelling in the first days after the
injury apply coal it will lessen the
inflammation and kill the pain try to
use the sprain limb as little as
possible for at least the first 48 hours
making yourself vomit in case of poison
the standard recommendation for
poisoning is to make yourself vomit
it might sound reasonable but actually
it's strictly prohibited first of all
the poison can get into the lungs and
damage them the second problem is that
if someone was poisoned with some
chemicals vomiting doubles the chance of
burning your throat finally it might be
very difficult to stop vomiting once it
starts so this can lead to dehydration
and even more severe consequences in
this situation the only smart thing you
can do is call the ambulance as fast as
possible rescuing a drowning person
there's only one obstacle on your way to
rescue a drowning person not being able
to swim if you are though nothing can
stop you from saving that person's life
remember to approach them from behind so
they don't see you coming otherwise the
person may hinder you or drag you down
in their panic after you've approached
the person grab them under the armpits
or by the chin and move to the shore
keeping their head at your belly pulling
out objects from wounds now you can pull
a splinter from a finger or a small
glass shard from your hand but you must
never try to pull out objects from
serious wounds even doctors keep them in
place until the patient is in surgery
the thing is while the object is inside
the wound it doesn't let the bleeding
start so until you are under
professional supervision don't do
anything not even touch the object the
only thing you can do is put some
alcohol on the wound but you must be
ready for the wound to hurt very much
well that's a splinter no matter how
scary a knife in a leg looks like don't
try to be a hero and just go to the
hospital
applying ice to a bruise there is
nothing actually wrong with treating a
bruise with ice but most people do it
wrong you shouldn't apply ice directly
to the skin if you don't want to get a
cold burn instead put a cloth between
your skin and a pack of ice however even
using a cloth doesn't mean there is no
risk of being burnt that's why you
should put ice for a maximum of 20
minutes at a time and then take a 90
minute break if for some reason you
don't have a cloth you can use don't use
ice at all believe us you'd prefer to
have a bruise rather than a cold burn
another thing you should know is that
there is no point in using ice 48 hours
after the injury using stitches to close
cuts it's not wrong to use stitches in
most cases it's the only way to close a
wound but putting stitches is a long and
painful procedure which requires
removing the stitches after the wound
heals so in some cases a less brutal
thing might work skin glue skin glue is
very quick and virtually painless wash
the wound with cold water before using
glue then stop the bleeding by pressing
the wound close the edges of the wound
and put skin glue along it however if
you see that the wound is too big
don't take the risk and go to the
hospital for professional help
[Music]
what to do if you spotted a shark
well first and foremost don't panic I
know easier said than done but maybe
this surprising tidbit will calm your
nerves
these predators bad wrap is a bit
unsubstantiated in fact only a few
people a year on the whole planet are
killed by sharks
this means that statistically you have
more chances of drowning somewhere near
the beach or even being struck by
lightning than becoming a victim of a
shark attack nevertheless knowing
exactly what to do when meeting this
carnivorous fish will lower your risks
of being attacked or seriously injured 1
never go into the water if there's a
posted warning on the beach be attentive
read all the information around you and
listen to what they say over the
loudspeaker 2 don't swim at night or at
dawn or dusk this is when sharks hunt so
they're more aggressive than usual not
to mention when it's dark out you have
almost zero visibility so it's pretty
much impossible to see an approaching
animal
number three swim only and clear and
calm water this way you'll be able to
spot danger from far away
remember that charts can rely on other
senses besides vision well you have only
your eyes to depend on number four and
very importantly don't start singing the
jaws theme song you know BOM bump bump
bump bump bump bump bump bump you know
like that anyways some sharks like to
show off to the other sharks and bite a
tourist and well this just encourages
them actually I just made all that up
sharks can't sing also be careful what
you wear
sharks can negatively react to bright
colors and shiny things because they
look like the Sharks usual prey of fish
and seals so don't look like a seal
avoid wearing bright swimsuits
especially yellow and colorful swimming
fins because a shark might mistake you
for its lunch and before you get in the
water
take off all your shiny jewelry and
accessories since these reflective and
metallic things will just like shiny
fish scales
[Music]
number five don't splash or thrash
around in the water too much in a
shark's brain this sudden movement must
be a wounded defenseless animal again
that's an easy meal for them avoid
sudden movements when you're swimming
underwater too because it might seem
like you're in distress or you might
look like a seal number six if you've
spotted a shark stay calm and
concentrate on getting away and out of
the water you need to do this quietly
and quickly yeah right number seven
check for signs of aggression indicating
that the animal is about to attack
these include circling arching the back
making sharp turns or lowering the
dorsal fin if an attack seems inevitable
take a defensive position now you might
have heard that you should punch a shark
in the nose to survive its attack
although this is true not many people
have enough courage or strength to do
this especially underwater in the
extremely rare instance of a prolonged
deadly encounter pull out these notes
and study them thoroughly and then
determine the best course of action
actually if you take that much time
you'll be the main course for the shark
so do this instead try to put a solid
object between you and the animal for
example a diving mass or a surfboard or
maybe your buddy over there if there's
nothing at hand the best way to scare a
shark away is to scratch at its eyes or
gills don't stop fighting this way the
shark will get the message that you're
not worth all the trouble
otherwise you can always refer the shark
toward that other guy to eat as a
substitute
[Music]
how to avoid a jellyfish sting
now if you take some pre-emptive
measures you won't need to worry about
jellyfish stings first of all choose an
area where you can swim safely if you
know that there are jellyfish around
avoid that place da also pay attention
to warning signs and watch for purple
flags that's the International sign that
you'll most likely encounter jellyfish
in the water if you see a jellyfish
that's washed ashore don't touch it even
if the animal is dead its tentacles are
still poisonous and can sting the gift
that keeps on giving now if you didn't
manage to steer clear of jellyfish and
got stung don't panic
their stings are rarely life-threatening
sure they hurt a lot and can cause a
rash in extreme cases the venom can even
spread throughout the body but if you
react quickly and correctly there won't
be any dire consequences immediately
call emergency services like 900 if the
affected area is large for example your
whole arm or your torso if the jellyfish
touched your face or genitals or if
you're having a bad allergic reaction
the box jellyfish which can be found
near the coast of Australia Hawaii and
in the indo-pacific is especially
dangerous its venom is incredibly potent
so look out for a light blue creature
with a cube-shaped head that can reach
up to 6 feet long
wow that sounds like my brother-in-law
hmm after you've been stung by a
jellyfish get out of the water and stay
calm don't touch or scratch the place of
the sting because there might still be
some tentacles attached to your skin or
some seawater not freshwater this is
really important over the affected area
and leave it don't dry it off with a
towel or anything
or a generous amount of vinegar over the
tentacles in your skin and let it sit
for at least a half a minute if you can
add some hot water to the vinegar after
that scrape off the remaining tentacles
with something plastic like a credit
card to relieve the pain submerge the
injured part of your body in warm water
at about a hundred and ten degrees
Fahrenheit
experts say the heat soothes the pain
and deactivates the venom better than
ice as for the whole pee on a jellyfish
sting tip it's a myth so don't do that
nobody wants to see that what to do if
you've stepped on a sea urchin stepping
on a sea urchin while going for a nice
relaxing swim in the salty water is
extremely common and it can seriously
ruin your vacation since sea urchins are
venomous and their stings require
immediate treatment first off make sure
you're not feeling any chest pain nausea
or difficulty breathing if you are call
emergency services and if not start by
removing all the spines they make
puncture wounds and usually get stuck in
the skin use tweezers to pull them out
especially if the ends of the spines are
protruding if they're not you can use
hot wax put it on the effective area
wait for it to dry and pull it off it'll
take the spines with it once you're sure
there are no spines left in your body
clean the wound with soap and water
you can also use hydrogen peroxide or
baited I don't cover the wound with a
bandage or tape because any spines
leftover need some space to get out of
your body
put a light covering over the wound only
before you go to bed otherwise you might
irritate it in your sleep
[Music]
what to do when you've been pulled into
a rip current poisonous animals aren't
the only thing you should be aware of
during your relaxation at the beach
there's one more thing that claims over
100 lives every year in the US alone yep
we're talking about rip currents they
can occur at any Beach with breaking
waves they're fast-moving and narrow
streams of water that can pull you away
from the shore before going into the
water
check for any suspicious looking
channels places with rip currents can be
foamy roar on the contrary
quieter than others if you enter the
water and feel a strong pull get out
immediately as soon as the water gets up
to your chest
it'll be practically impossible to break
free if you've still got caught by the
current stay calm it won't pull you
under water and don't exhaust yourself
trying to fight the current in most
cases there no wider than 30 feet so if
you start swimming parallel to the shore
you'll manage to escape it's all another
tip is to swim in the direction of the
breaking waves they mark the borders of
the rip current as soon as you get out
of the current swim diagonally towards
the shore this way you'll avoid getting
caught in it again you spit for fishing
of course most wilderness survival tips
depend on the area you've found yourself
trapped in most of us don't find
ourselves snowed in at McDonald's
however you'll be able to find a water
source almost anywhere unless you've
wound up in the desert and if you're
prepared water equals food and drink of
course I know you're probably shouting
at the screen right now kind of hard to
be prepared when you didn't plan to get
stranded far away from civilization but
in any case knowledge is power
if you see a lake or river but are on
the verge of tears because you don't
have any fishing gear there's no need to
regret leaving your bait and pole at
home all you need is the shirt on your
back and the saliva in your mouth and
you're good to go
now tie the shirt tails and the sleeves
together so that you get something
resembling
a bag then walk to the water try to be
quiet so you don't scare off your
potential dinner place the top of your
shirt right under the surface of the
water as you would with a fishing net
and spit it's an effective way to
attract small fish and minnows because
they think you're scattering food for
them when they start gathering around in
front of you you yank the shirt up and
out of the water you can either cook
your prey right then and there or use it
to attract bigger fish and a bigger
dinner making a fishing bobber out of a
tampon this is an absolute must even if
you're a dude these female hygiene
products take up little space in your
backpack but have so many survival uses
they can provide you with four types of
material an airtight wrapper cotton
wadding a string and a plastic tube yeah
I know guys they're kind of weird and
scary-looking but if you're going on a
camping trip throw some in your bag
nobody's judging now we're not gonna
cover exactly how dudes should buy
tampons in the store without
embarrassment here that's for a
different video anyway the wrapper will
make the perfect DIY fishing bobber just
open it carefully at one end pull the
tampon out and close the wrapper leaving
a bubble of air inside you can also add
some cotton in there that way it'll
definitely float now don't go throwing
away the rest of the contents when you
use the wrapper to make a bobber don't
forget you can stuff the plastic tube
with cotton to make a water filter as
for the cotton itself besides water
filtration it's got some other handy
uses being absorbent it can serve as
gauze if you accidentally cut yourself
plus cotton makes the perfect tinder if
you need to start a fire starting a fire
with the help of a condom I know I know
I can hear you from here start a fire
using cotton from a tampon how can I
even light the cutting up if I don't
have a lighter or matches
once again no need to panic unless
you're a smoker you don't carry matches
or a lighter with you everywhere you go
but perhaps you've got some condoms
lying around
one what
be enough yes you're gonna want to stay
tuned for this now all you need to do is
collect some tinder and kindling pine
needles bark
dried leaves cotton from a tampon oh how
convenient then fill the condom with
water from a nearby lake or river a
bottle of water if you have one on you
or even collected rainwater after that
hold the water filled condom over the
tinder and wait the sunlight coming
through the condom water balloon will
gather in one spot and as soon as this
point gets hot enough you'll see some
smoke and then a flame who would have
thought
Pringles Cheetos and noodles to start a
fire okay so let's say you're stranded
in a place that has nothing to use for
tinder and you decided not to take our
advice about the tampons well surely you
brought some chips to snack on
Pringles Cheetos and Lay's are a great
substitute for dry leaves the same goes
for spaghetti noodle one knows the
feeling of enjoyment and pure bliss that
comes with popping bubble wrap not only
is it fun but it's also just so soothing
ooh
anyway if you love this stuff as much as
I do don't forget to pack it next time
you go camping it could just save your
life that's all the pockets of air in
the packaging can act as sort of
insulation
think of it this way the plastic shield
will bounce back your body heat and keep
you warm one study published in 2009 by
the scandinavian journal of trauma
resuscitation and emergency medicine
proved that just one layer of bubble
wrap was over 70% more effective than
three cotton blankets and bubble wrap
turns out to be a much better choice in
windy and rainy weather but wait there's
more this stuff is much more lightweight
than cotton bedding plus let's be honest
you look pretty funny wrapped up in it
did you like this tip isn't it so simple
yet utterly genius if you want to know
how to use other everyday things to your
advantage in an extreme situation watch
our next video
making a small raft who knows what
unexpected circumstances you may find
yourself in one day what if a flood
catches you off-guard on a camping trip
but your treat climbing skills are zilch
well if this is the case you can make a
compact raft to float on until the flood
subsides or at least until you reach a
safer place collect a bunch of branches
as many as you can and cover them with a
tarp plastic wrap or some bubble wrap
grab whatever you have on hand and boom
there's your raft that'll keep your head
above water you're welcome reaching your
destination with a flat tire so you're
driving through the wilderness and
suddenly get a flat oh yeah and you've
got no spare tire if this ever happens
to you don't worry there's a way out
even if you're in a deserted place with
no other drivers around to ask for help
just cut several holes on the inside of
the burst tire collect some weeds and
grass and fill your tire with it now you
won't be winning any NASCAR races or
anything but at least you'll make it to
where you were going using a nail file
as a knife sharpener the guys out there
probably thinking sheesh another chick
thing what can I say
they have useful stuff besides dudes
have nails too if you keep a nail file
or emery board as some call it in your
camping gear it can serve as a pretty
good knife sharpener move the sides of
the blade along the file for several
minutes and then use your newly
sharpened knife in any way you need
cutting off small branches to build a
fire collecting mushrooms
fighting off a grizzly if you're really
hardcore more about that in a moment
starting a fire using a pencil jumper
cables and a car battery one of the most
important things for survival and even
for some comfort in the wilderness is to
start a fire
I'm sure you've got the point by now I
mean how many of the tips in our list
are connected to building a fire well
we're not done yet so here's one more
attach the cables to the battery of your
car as if you're about to give someone
to jump but instead of another car
connect the other ends of the cable to a
pencil the trick here is that the
pencils graphite core conducts
electricity
so it'll heat up and the pencil will
burst into flames all you need to do now
is put it on a pile of dry branches with
some tampon cotton or some chips see it
all comes full circle finding food it's
pretty obvious that food is essential
for survival especially if you're
stranded for a long time in fact it's
common knowledge that a person can go
about 3 weeks without food but it
doesn't mean they'll be able to function
normally
but there are so many edible things in
the wilderness such as pine nuts egg
corns wild onions sweet potatoes
dandelion leaves all sorts of berries
and the list just goes on and on if
you're not a wilderness survival expert
and most of us aren't and you're not
sure which plants are safe to eat
observe animals you can follow them
around and eat what they eat you could
even be like a Bambi want to split that
No okay cool another way is to test the
plant by putting a tiny piece of it on
your lip and leaving it there for some
time if it's edible you won't have any
reaction don't even think about touching
the plants with a discolored or milky
sap thorns
fine hairs or a bitter taste also steer
clear of the ones with leaves that grow
in threes they're most likely poisonous
now one final tip concerning bears if
you and your party come up on a grizzly
bear surprising it and the bear begins
to chase you then run away the important
thing here is you don't have to be
faster than the bear you just have to be
faster than the guy
you